Add on-crypto blog post (#1)
yuvipanda/words: content/post/on-crypto.md

and controlled by a few huge, hypercapitalist players. I've written about ways the open source
community can help here ([by not tying ourselves to a single provider](https://words.yuvi.in/post/oss-in-the-cloud/)),
and helped draft the [right to replicate](https://2i2c.org/right-to-replicate/) policy to
put it into effect at 2i2c. This topic is important to me - I don't want a future where
step 1 of learning to code is something extremely vendor specific.

Theoretically, this is very well within the scope of the 'web3' movement (quite different from
the [web 3.0](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semantic_Web) movement which has mostly died out).
I would love for that to be the case, but unfortunately I've found almost nothing about the
'crypto' or 'web3' communities attractive. I'm going to try write down why in this post.

Most of this isn't unique thought - others have written about these with much more citations,
and deeper analysis than I have. I encourate you to seek those out and read them.

## Extremely toxic community

Right out of the bat, the self-proclaimed community around the monikers 'web3' and 'crypto'

> seems *extremely* toxic, in ways that are generally order of magnitude more

Reviewer: This claim would be a lot stronger with some examples and / or links (perhaps with appropriate trigger warnings).

toxic than most open source toxicity. Absolute massive dealbreaker. The amount of money
sloshing around there seems to be attracting the kinda folks I don't really want in
my communities.

## Environmental impact of proof of work

> Difficult for me to get past the environmental impact of most proof of work systems. Any

Reviewer: This NYT article cloud be a nice reference here - https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2021/09/03/climate/bitcoin-carbon-footprint-electricity.html

renewable energy they use is energy that could be used to take more fossil fuels off
the grid. I don't want proof of work systems to switch to renewable energy - I want them

> to stop existing.

Reviewer: What if they are using energy that would we wasted otherwise, and creating economic value in the process. This article has a nice discussion of that - https://hbr.org/2021/05/how-much-energy-does-bitcoin-actually-consume -> "Bitcoin Can Use Energy That Other Industries Can’t"

Author: @rabernat personally, given the other negative aspects of bitcoin particularly, I'm happy for that energy to remain untapped.

## The rich get richer

In the economic models of almost all 'crypto', growing inequality is a feature, not a bug.
This is outright formalized in Proof of Stake systems, and is de-facto true in most
Proof of Work systems. I don't really want to live in a world that is even more unequal
than the one I live in now.

This seems to be an active area of research, and I'm excited to see newer work (like
Filecoin) come out of this, although I've no idea if they can ever solve their latency

> problems. Fixes to this would be fundamental to any possible positive outcome from

Reviewer: The above needs to be elaborated if you want people to understand it without any prior context.

Author: I just removed this as well.

the 'crypto' community.

## "Distributed Ledger" is not a solution to many problems

The buzzwordiness of 'blockchain', 'crypto' and 'web3' mean they're now being
forcefit into problems they are very poor solutions for.
Every time I see the word 'blockchain', I mentally replace it with 'distributed ledger',
and see if it can still be a good fit for the given problem. Most often, it does not.

> Problems often have to be reframed in economic terms to have a blockchain solve them,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Problems often have to be reframed in terms of "transactions" to have a blockchain solve them,
```

a distributed ledger, everything looks like a problem of incentives.

So any time something purports to solve a problem that is *not* use as a
currency using a blockchain, consider carefully the problem it is solving, and
seeing if the solutions it is proposing actually solve the problem in a way that
is generally usable given latency and throughput consideration.

## Let's evaluate the tech on a case-by-case basis

The [fediverse](https://fediverse.party/) is quite cool. I think of [IPFS](https://ipfs.io/)
as the spiritual successor to bittorrent in many ways (yes, I know they consider themselves
to be `web3`). There's a lot of really cool conceptual work happening in
removing ourselves from being beholden to a couple of major corporations that doesn't
necessarily require buying into a speculative, environmentally disastrous property bubble.
I want to evaluate each tech that might be solving a problem I find important, but if
it has brought in strongly to the 'crypto' or 'web3' hype, it just has a much bigger
bar to clear to prove that it just isn't a speculative ponzi scheme.

I can't wait for the huge amounts of money and the hype train to die out, so we can

> pick up the useful tech that comes out of this.

Reviewer: 👍 👍 👍

Author: Going to add 'and proof of work', because I *do* want that to die out.
